One comes into a world of unimaginable cruelty, most of which remains silent, subtle, evades the ruthless abstraction of statistics.
A daily death felt thousands of times by billions of people.
One comes into this world, with a will to change it.
Yet one’s spirit is shaken by the countless other kindred souls, who had similar intentions, that burnt bright with an admirable passion far beyond the young sparks that flicker in and out today.
One’s spirit is shaken that despite their passion, these old flames were nevertheless extinguished.
To try as they had tried.
To fail as they had failed.
There is a beauty, in those moments of historical significance, that fed the flames of those passionate creatives.
That inimitable feeling of the world moving around your feet.
Lenin frolicking in the snow, upon hearing his revolution, had outlasted the Paris Commune.
But these moments, steeped with emotions only known by those who had lived them, become passionless historical facts.
The passing of time fossilizes them, abstracting away their authentic, felt meaning and subsequently inspiring a flame no hotter than the snow that crunched under Lenin’s joyful feet.
These events, when rendered historical objects of the past, inspire nothing that could affect one’s passion; their real felt values decompose like flesh on skeleton.
All we are left with is the sanitized, objective, unfelt, uncaring bones of empirical procedure.
We come into a historical age where all meaning or direction has already been made.
All avenues of escape have already been spent.
New attempts merely mutely copying the old.
Facsimiles entirely alien to the spirit of the original.
We attempt to dance just as Lenin did.
Unable to steer away from the unfeeling simulacra of history, one is cursed to not create but reproduce that which has already been made.
All that one can truly envision has already been done.
Philosophy cannot be done with a hammer, as the time for philosophy has passed.
The philosophy of the academy represents its historical age well, practical, non-speculative, social-ethical.
What is there to speculate on today?
What is the purpose of speculation, if the direction of history does not depend upon it?
That is why the philosophy of the current historical epoch can be nothing except practical, pragmatic, realistic, unromantic, mirroring the many newly envisioned procedures for revolutionary change.
The younger generation comes into a world of unimaginable suffering, unquantifiable pain, and an unquantifiable understanding.
They can resort to nothing except the already fixed, failed avenues of escape, gifted to them by history.
Their failures can equate to no meaning, not even that surely incredible, inspiring feeling of historical change felt by those creatives that preceded them by generations, who unknowingly fixed them along such paths.
Lenin danced in the snow, because his change meant something; it was a creation of new avenues, opportunities.
We do not dance.
We cannot dance.
Because the time for creation has passed.
We are the first generation to understand the great weight that has been set upon us by history, while also being unable to imagine the continued existence of such history beyond our own lives.
A history that is yet to be made is no more for there is no future, yet history is all that we can remember.
The simultaneous end of history, and the unimaginably restrictive imposition of it onto our actions paralyzes us, guilts us by association.
It destroys any ability to lift the massive weight of imposed understandings forced onto us by the past, while also removing our actions of any future significance that might drive us to create.
What a cruel world to live in that is the opposite of the Greeks of antiquity, who had no sense of an imposed historical past, beyond the myths they gleefully invented and an open avenue for creating their future.
Surely, if there is a coherent collected history beyond our generations, the crystallized, expressionless, objective representations of us in those accounts will have as much raw meaning to those in the future as these events have to us now.
These fictional future generations must, according to our self-imposed guilt, judge us for our inaction.
Yet hopefully, they will judge us based upon their own epoch’s standards.
One in which the historical significance of their actions does not weigh them down and fix them to premade, predetermined directions of change.
Hopefully, I can only imagine from my own age, they can move in ways we could never move; they can create in ways we never could.
And hopefully, they can forgive us.
One comes into a world steeped in already imposed meanings, directions of action, avenues of change, that appear to one as if they are all that exists, all that could exist.
This is the primary problem facing our current historical epoch.
Our long-term memory weighs upon us as a force; the giant mass of historical facts and inevitabilities, when remembered, generate a gravity that gravely constricts and narrows one’s thoughts and actions.
The historical realities of family, culture, civilization trace their structures onto desire, tying it down, controlling it until there is no room anywhere else for desire to flow except along fixed, predetermined contours.
We must utilize our short-term memory, if we are ever to learn how to create once more.
Creation is not possible if all one has access to, is that which has already been created.
This long-term memory of ours is a dam that must be broken.
And it can only be shattered through forgetting.
Like a flash flood of tremendous force, the burgeoning, billowing onslaughts of desire of the past, altered and ravaged the terrain of world history, smoothing spaces that had been previously striated, sanding down contours that could limit the further uncontrolled movements of desire.
Like the countryside village made unrecognizable by rapidly advancing waves, the face of history had been permanently altered by the many waves of revolutionary desire.
How could we ever forget such as thing as this?
How could desire ever flow outside the boundaries set by this awe-inspiring past?
But these unrelenting flows of desire had not lasted forever.
They had ironically etched themselves into the landscape of history, generating unforgettable contours and striations that now come to define the narrow limits of what seems possible for the creatives of today.
The mnemotechnics of old revolutionary action deny us the very same billowing and burgeoning, which they had attempted to ensure would never again be seen as impossible.
This is why we must forget all over again.
We must work against the lines drawn by the creatives of old, who had no hint of the future limitations caused by their actions.
If we do not learn to forget, we are destined to eternally repeat their failures.
If we do not learn to forget, we are constrained within the hardened and stale realm of pre-constructed meanings that provide no opportunities for change.
Oswald Spengler for instance, was unable to forget the culture that he meant to critique, rendering his cultural criticism useless.
If all meaning in history is truly just family, race, society, civilization, then, as Spengler had seemingly assumed, there is nothing one can do.
He and the other so called revolutionary conservatives can only possibly come to despise the things which they had created and were forced by the same historical necessity that barred them from meaningful creation to begrudgingly follow along.
Their long term memory weighed on them like a force that transcended any possible change of direction away from nihilism.
National Socialism was, if there ever has been, a revolutionary conservative movement.
This assertion ought to come with all the logical conclusions implied by an association with a group of thinkers such as the revolutionary conservatives, who attempted to critique their world while still using their long term memory.
Despite being entirely alien to their ideal worlds and in fact, even worse than the original societies they had critiqued, they all fell in line with this new movement.
Fascism becomes the only possible thing that cultural criticism can produce if it only uses its long term memory.
In attempting to diagnose the nihilism of his age, Spengler became one of its most active proponents.
He claims to have been inspired by Nietzsche, but instead only took heed from the last man.
Any meaningful cultural criticism must come with a forgetting, a spirit of short term, creative exertions and not long term, nihilistic repetitions.
Criticism must come as a rootstalk, growing between the cracks of one’s predetermined, cultural, historical understandings.
It must be weeds that grow between the seams of long term meaning, which attempts to enforce itself as the only thing that can determine one’s direction of growth; it wishes to take up all possible spaces of action and make one think that they have no choice but to accept the nihilism it brings.
As Deleuze and Guattari understood, grass is the only way out.
This historical meaning wishes to be totalizing, wishes to make no room for life, for anything else other than a timid acceptance of itself and its already fixed directions.
These imposed avenues of action come with nothing except a social death stretched out across entire lifetimes.
Life in the present, is the balance between the overbearing inheritances of the past alongside their supposed historical necessities, and the unset directions of the future.
One must never ensure that remembering the former makes one forget the latter!
Life must attempt to grow in all places where the past cannot find it and fix itself to it.
Life must not allow these inheritances to pull it out and replace it with a cold, meaningless facsimile of historical objects that have already become, which are destined to reproduce themselves with an even more catastrophic failure than had been experienced before.
You must not move in the already fixed directions which are set onto you by the past!
You must grow in new ways that spite the very fibre of these inheritances, even if some of them seem admirable, worthy of repetition.
Live in ways that they suggest are not even possible.
Grow alongside avenues of change, that they suggest do not even exist.
Coalesce within spaces between them, which they wish to tell you are already filled by their sterile, cold, meaningless inheritances.
Occupy spaces that these historical necessities cannot even conceive of.
Create in places the police, the ones within your head as well as elsewhere, do not know how to police.
Learn things that the overbearing, professionalized, sanitized knowledges, upheld through the academy and elsewhere, cannot understand.
Create new ideas that the institutions, which uphold these sterilized knowledges cannot, possibly come to know.
Make sure that they cannot even comprehend the extent of how dangerous your new creations are to their petty, insignificant, forced sense of order.
What a crime it would be to reduce all that is, all that could be, to all that has become.
And become, not in the sense that it had existed in its becoming, but merely how it exists to us today.
What could be more paralyzing of an effect than reducing life and its potentialities, directions, desires, to the narrow structures set out for it that have already been tried and failed?
What a miserable life it would be to simply follow that.
That is not even a life, not even a becoming, but merely a lifeless repetition of all that has already become.
We must, as Deleuze said later in his life, distinguish between becoming and history.
Do not follow alongside the failures of the past.
However much the legacy of these failures, wishes to suggest that it is all that you can do.
To frolic as Lenin once did, to create new avenues as he had once done, one must forget him.
Forget what has solidified through history into a sterilized, objective, meaninglessness that cannot hope to inspire the change which one desperately needs.
Shave down these historical facts that have crystallized themselves into your waking consciousness, which make no room for a passionate flame that desires to burn as brightly as it possibly can.
It is only in forgetting, that one can remember what it means to create.
During the early stages of the pandemic, many leftists fell into a moral conundrum concerning lockdown procedures.
When, in general, we would advise one to rebel against the state apparatus and not listen when it screams stay in your home, do not go outside, there was a fairly logical indication that to protect people’s lives, we should encourage the enforcement of public health procedures done by the state and the police.
To even bring up this problem, one must of course, differentiate one’s position from the typical associations that come from the claim that the pandemic is being used to control us, a comment usually inspired by a worldview primarily drawn from the chan message boards and Q drops.
The primary distinction between the leftist concern for the state’s intervention into our daily lives, and the anti-masker’s, is a compassion and love for others.
The belief that the government is authoritarian because one must wear a mask at Applebee’s can only become legible from a contemporary petit-bourgeois account of freedom, which is entirely unconcerned with the well-being of others.
To be truly free for these anti-maskers, is to engage in the American dream, a concept necessarily related to their idea of freedom.
This translates to a desire to be able to spend whatever money one earns on whatever commodities they may dream of on the free market.
Freedom does not concern one’s position at work, the democratization of their society, or the capacity to make meaningful decisions about their life.
Freedom is simply the seemingly endless, yet mind-numbingly similar, opportunities one has to spend their money on the market.
For the state to intervene between the point of one acquiring money and spending it is akin to George Orwell’s 1984.
Thus, the left wing apprehension for following extreme public health protocols comes from a polar opposite cause than the anti-masker’s position.
I use the term anti-masker to provide a distinction between the left and the right critique of state intervention in public health, because the rejection of mask use is a minor inconvenience that may save lives.
Those in the left position would wear a mask even if it was not mandated, out of basic care for those around them, while those on the right will not wear a mask simply because the state tells them they need to.
This is why worries about lockdown measures from the left do not meaningfully spread the virus, while ones on the right do.
The work of 20th-century French critical theorist Michel Foucault, may help us conceive of the leftist apprehension, then later acceptance, of public health procedures in this situation.
Foucault’s position is, ironically, similar to the anti-mask science deniers, just as the anti-capitalist position is.
Yet his analysis is far more symmetrical.
Foucault employs a general critique of the role that public health projects have in the discursive relationships of power that our society is contingent upon.
Foucault recognizes the positive, additive nature of power, in these particular instances, while also showing the negative conclusions of these systems that should be resisted.
The anti-masker’s analysis begins and ends with any public health policies that deny their putrid conception of petit-bourgeois freedom.
When indigenous women are forcefully sterilized by these programs, these anti maskers look away.
When the Reagan administration abandoned the gay community during the AIDS crisis, these anti maskers could not care less.
Yet to what extent has the left meaningfully reconciled with the power the state apparatus has in public health programs?
For Foucault, public health systems are essentially predicated on letting certain populations grow and subsequently leaving other populations to die.
Beginning within history of sexuality volume one, Foucault develops the two interrelated concepts of biopower and biopolitics.
One, biopower, typically describes how the other, biopolitics, is applied within society.
Biopower is, then, a power that relates to the fostering of life for certain populations within society.
This is a modern invention and is a manifestation of power that is additive.
It is additive in the sense that it produces more life and allows for certain sections of a population to grow.
Both ostensibly mean the same thing, that is, they are both translated to English as power).
Yet for Foucault, this type of power also actively constitutes subjects by integrating them into the systems of power through techniques or mechanisms that play out in seemingly mundane and average relations.
These relationships of power allow for discursive meaning making to be possible.
One can think of the disciplinary mechanism of the exam, for instance, as a way of conceiving of Foucault’s general mobilization of the word power.
The examination is seemingly mundane, and not crucial when analyzing the disciplinary society.
The examination does not repress the true nature of the student, but instead actively draws out the production of certain types of knowledge from this student that are satisfactory for the examination process.
Power is additive, in that it produces this knowledge or allows for the student to produce this knowledge themselve.
One may think of the extent to which they have personally learned things in school, as an example of the additive, productive capacities of power.
The student learns and produces the required knowledge of the examination, based upon their relationship with an instructor.
Why does the instructor teach the student to produce particular truths in the examination format?
For instance, in the disciplinary institution of the school, there is a massive game of power being played through these large sets of relationships that allow for the student to produce particular ideas that are tested.
For Foucault, these relationships are predicated on the particular techniques and mechanisms of power that allow for these relationships to reproduce themselves.
These relationships form a chain of subjects held together by power; Each level and the seemingly mundane mechanisms that sustains them is essential for the entire institution.
Only through analyzing these chains, can one meaningfully make sense of disciplinary power, and the massive systems and institutions that this form of power is predicated upon.
Foucault’s method of genealogy is contingent on analyzing these systems and their development based on the general mechanisms and techniques of power employed by some onto others.
These are not abstract powers used by some to dominate others.
These are a discursive set of practices employed by some onto others that form a chain of relationships bound by power.
The seemingly mundane links in these chains are what one must analyze if they are to understand large institutions, such as state power.
Public health programs, for instance, are pure manifestations of biopower.
Biopower, as seen through public health program, provides to certain parts of a population growth of life and protection from death.
It does so importantly, for specific reasons related to the continued reproduction of power.
Biopower is very specific in its implementation.
How can this process be possible, except for the aforementioned chain of power relations that structure it?
Even the acquisition of data and its interpretation, which is required for public health systems, functions on techniques and mechanisms of power.
In its use here, power can be conceived of as having an intention but not a subject.
Subjects may work to reproduce power, without the active understanding they are doing so.
Biopower is intimately related to Foucault’s understanding of governmentality, as put forward in his nineteen seventy-eight lecture security, territory, population.
Governmentality conceptualizes how biopower is implemented, and how it practically relates to individuals within a society.
Within this lecture series, Foucault argues that we ought to broaden our account of ideas such as governance outside of simply political structures and states.
This even includes what Foucault refers to, as the governing of oneself, which is included within the larger societal web of governmentality.
Instead of envisioning the existence of a state, which looms over us and which we must break free of, governmentality emphasizes the general, discursive, intersubjective game of power that allows for the idea of the state to even become legible.
What is missing in the laymen’s account of governance is an ability to account for the ways in which strategies of power embedded within governmentality reproduce themselves without the influence of a police officer, or the implied presence of a court sentence.
Governmentality is also predicated on the work of statistics.
This statistical work can generally be understood on the large-scale scientific management of populations led by the power of experts, who decide who can flourish and who is left to die.
Statistics helpfully monitor the development of population, gain valuable data on how to influence these developments, and develop an episteme that renders biopolitical developments morally essential.
This point is the primary connection between governmentality and biopower.
They are less connected, than they are necessarily conjoined, but regardless, biopower is implemented through a modern system of governmentality, which builds itself upon statistics.
Public health experts may decide that certain populations are at risk.
Let us imagine in this example, it is gay men during the AIDS crisis.
During the AIDS crisis we can see that, in a majority of instances, governmentality did not extend its ability to save gay men.
It instead worked to separate non-queer populations, from the beginning points of infection.
This is the essentially double-edged nature of biopower.
So while biopower may initially seem as though it merely provides support for certain elements of the population, it is also implemented to allow other portions of the population to wither away and die.
Regardless, this decision is still thoroughly for the sake of governmentality.
One can see here how austerity allows for the biopolitical distinction to intensify itself.
One can note an important change from medieval sovereign power, where the sovereign exerts its power by either killing or allowing to live, towards biopower, which either supports a population, allowing it to flourish or letting it die.
Biopower and governmentality are far more intimate and affective towards targeted populations than sovereign power.
The relationships of power that predicated the sovereign society were that of the king essentially ignoring their subject.
Instead of simply allowing these subjects to live, biopower forces them to be integrated more intimately within these mechanisms of power if they wish to not be abandoned.
Through biopower, the state grabs the subject by the hand and says, you will be protected from illness and death so long as you follow me.
Just as the king decides to massacre an unruly peasant village to embolden his status as sovereign, so does the system of governmentality invest in medical infrastructure for certain portions of the population.
Both of these decisions are predicated on a decision related to power, one is clearly far more efficient than the other.
God is dead.
God remains dead.
And we have killed him.
How shall we comfort ourselves, the murderers of all murderers?
What was holiest and mightiest of all that the world has yet owned has bled to death, under our knives.
What festivals of atonement?
What sacred games shall we have to invent?
Is not the greatness of this deed too great?
Must we ourselves not become gods, simply to appear worthy of it?
There has never been a greater deed.
And whoever is born after us, for the sake of this deed, he will belong to a higher history, than all history hitherto.
Much of Nietzsche’s work, when taken at face value, can be incredibly hard to stomach.
Yet we must look far deeper than this surface level understanding, to truly get at the value of his philosophical writing.
Much of his work must be retailored to fit a collective militancy, instead of an individual madness, yet he begins the process that we must complete.
It is specifically in Nietzsche’s transhumanism and his anti-retributivism, all connected to his account of meaning creation and his naturalism, that we can find a way to translate his anti-politic into a political program that can allow for a social world where meaning making is once again possible.
For Nietzsche, humans have no immaterial soul, free will, transparent intellect, or ego.
All of these concepts are a product of a Christian metaphysics that obfuscates our nature.
Nietzsche’s naturalism subsequently folds the human social world into the natural world.
One cannot make a meaningful distinction between them.
To deny the will to power of drives within individuals through for instance, guilt and shame, does the same thing to the human organism that depriving sunlight does to a tree.
Nietzsche is essentially rejecting the division between physical and mental health.
The physical and mental operations are intimately connected.
The collection of sense within the individual is intimately connected to their spirit, both of which exist under their entire self.
One might describe sense as the plurality of different perspectives and beliefs that occupy an individual’s mind, and spirit as the physical drives that move them forward.
A healthy spirit is intimately connected to particular senses allowing themselves to be satiated.
The ego merely attaches itself to the sense that satiates itself the strongest and says, this is me.
We do not have to search particularly far to highlight the contradictory nature of the relationship between the full and authentic self, which the senses exist under, and the constructed and fictional ego.
One may think of a smoker who is trying to quit smoking for instance.
As they take a drag of a cigarette, they might think, I have got to quit smoking.
Yet this is not the full story of what one believes, and the contradictory drive, accompanying the perspective that smoking is bad, attempts to win out.
In many cases, a particular drive may be actively suppressed for the sake of the total health of the self.
The master does not particularly care about the actions of those they deem as bad.
They simply create values to satiate the drives within them.
It is those that the master considers bad, that created the objective moral systems of slave morality.
This system is created in direct opposition to the subjective and life affirming, good, within master morality, and opposes these traits to spite it.
Nietzsche identifies slave morality, as beginning in the early Christians who revolted under the Roman empire, and eventually took it over following Constantine’s conversion.
Under slave morality, the master is considered evil, and the slave is considered good.
Instead of allowing for the creation of values and caring little about those who disagree with them, as every self has different drives that it may attempt to satiate, slave morality imposes an objective moral system that does not allow the affirmation of will to power.
This is the problem that Nietzsche is attempting to solve within his historical situation.
Firstly, Nietzsche is still critical of master morality.
It is precisely the conditions within the system of master morality, that allow for the creation of slave morality.
Within his praise of master morality, Nietzsche is also doing a subtle flattery of the nobility, that may allow for them to act better ensure that individuals are not prevented from satiating their will to power.
For Nietzsche, retributive justice emerges within slave morality.
This new set of morals is entirely based upon vengeance against master morality, and its destruction.
For Nietzsche, all morality comes out of the creditor debtor relationship.
This mnemotechnic of pain is contingent on a natural inclination that humans have towards cruelty or enjoyment of inflicting pain.
This cruelty is proportionate, to be clear.
Mass murderers do not exercise any level of equivalence to their cruelty, and lash out at individuals who do not owe them anything in any way.
It is easier to imagine that we are cruel and enjoy pain, not in the sense that we are secretly all Ted Bundy, but in the same sense that we all indulge in base urges, such as eating unhealthy foods or smoking.
These things, like inflicting pain, may be drives that lead to a decrease in health, yet they are still earthly desire.
But how could this be the case?
Is this not a clear paradox?
Should we not take from this, and his explicit belief that retributivism emerges in slave morality, that Nietzsche is against the enforcement of punishment in moral systems?
Or only allowing a punishment that is life affirming and ensures that the one who is being punished also has the capacity to satiate their will to power.
This is exactly what Nietzsche thought of, when he argued that punishment must be life affirming.
Slave morality takes from those who act against it with increased cruelty.
The slave’s cruelty is worse, because it is calculating and vengeful.
Slave morality uses the concept of utility, to justify its desire towards cruelty through reason.
The technological ingenuity of the blockchain is a development that should not be underestimated.
Using this ingenuity, cryptocurrencies provide an economic system that is untethered from a centralized banking ledger.
The system’s primary genius comes from the large-scale communal recording and verification process of economic transactions.
No trust is required in a central apparatus to verify trade.
It is unlike any monetary system seen before it.
Surely this is what its creators had imagined it would do as well.
Instead, we have come to find out that cryptocurrency is just like the microwave.
In that common-sense view, the State and the Market tower above all else as diametrically opposed principles.
Historical reality reveals however, that they were born together and have always been intertwined.
There is no mystical state of nature in which humans freely trade with each other through barter and crude currency systems as the primary means of resource distribution.
In early hunter-gatherer societies, we can note that, as Graeber demonstrated, resources are allocated and distributed based upon the needs of the collective society.
It is relatively easy to infer from this basic anthropological position, that markets are predicated upon states.
It seems fitting that blockchain technology would be a beneficial resource to make this reality possible.
It is too bad that it isn’t possible.
The primary reason a market is not possible without a state, which is confirmed by the anthropological evidence, relates to the necessary monopoly on violence connected to private property.
This does not lend well to cooperation, if there is no entity that oversees these transactions, and ensures they do not escalate towards violence.
If an individual wants an object, he extols it by saying how fine it is.
If a man values an object and wants much in exchange for it, instead of saying that it is very valuable he says that it is no good, thus showing he desire to keep it.
This argument is carried on in an angry tone of voice until a settlement is reached.
When agreement has been reached, each snatches the object out of the other's hand.
If a man has bartered a necklace, instead of taking it off and handing it over, the other person must take it off with a show of force.
Disputes often lead to fights.
While bitcoin’s decentralized, autonomous ledger system may sneak some power away from the centralized financial systems, blockchain could not hope to predicate an anarcho-capitalist society.
Yet these connections are also, ironically, predicated upon a state to enforce their validity.
Let’s imagine that in a cryptocurrency based anarcho-capitalist utopia, I buy a pair of shoes through bitcoin, and the seller steals them back after our economic transaction is verified.
All that is solid, melts into air.
These capitalist deterritorializations, cannot allow for the possibility of a movement outside of capitalism.
We must be the ones who kill capital.
It must bleed to death under our knives.
